Laravel has release cycle every six months
probably in a year there would be two versions release.
So to keep our application up to date we need to
upgrade our larval app once new version released.
But upgrading level up manually is not easy because
we need to update the laraval framework with its
dependencies
to the newer version.
If we are using third party dependencies then we need
to update them where the newest frameworks support.
We also need to make some changes
to our core application structure,
adding new files or install additional third
party packages to fit the new framework.
So an alternative way is to use third party services
called laravel shift you can visit the homepage
by accessing laravelshift.com.
Here we can see that this service able to update from
laravel version 4.2 to 5.8 which the current version
when I'm recording this video
it's not free but the price that they offer is not much expensive.
You can pay from three to twenty nine dollar.
You can see more detail about the price by hitting this link.
For example you can update larval version
from 5.7 to 5.8 for $9. Laravel 5.6 to 5.7
$13 and so on.
So if you don't have time to manually upgrade your app
then you can try this service but if you don't want
to spend some money or other reasons
then you need to upgrade manually.
And in this section I'm going to show you how
to upgrade laravel application manually.
when firstly recording this course I was using Laravel 5.6.
So in this section I'll provide how to upgrade
laravel from Version 5.6 to 5.7 and 5.7 to 5.8
and I'll do my best to add new upgrade
guide when new laravel version release.
You don't need to follow all lessons in this section
just follow the upgrade guide based on
which level version you are using.
For example if you're using version 5.7 when follow
this course then you can follow upgrade guide
for Level 5.8 or if you're using laravel
5.8 and new version released
then you can come back here and hopefully I've been
provided the upgrade guide for the newer version.
Now before following the upgrade guide please
check the server requirements in laravel official
documentation and make sure all the requirements
on your server are met so that your app still work
properly after upgrade finished. When your server ready
You can then follow the guide based on your need.
OK let's get started.